For security to be done right,
it takes high-level planning led by organizational leaders.
They need to set the rules for everyone to follow,
which is known as governance and compliance.
This section explains these terms and how policies are
used as a form of communicating corporate governance and enforcing compliance.
Necessary evils in the world of security.
Let me explain some of these terms.
The governance of cybersecurity is a strategic planning responsibility that
provides oversight of company information systems, operations, and activities.
This is done by setting organizational policies and establishes practices to enforcement.
The compliance requires all affected parties follow the same rules.
Tied to these terms is auditing,
an independent review and examination of records and
activities to assess the adequacy of security
and system controls to ensure compliance with
established policies and operational procedures.
Let me give you an example.
When you're working, what you browse,
where you're allowed to go on the Internet, that's the governance.
Limiting availability of what sites you can go to
using business computers, that compliance.
Checking your Internet history that may be considered auditing.
All of these areas intermingle within businesses and are often done behind the scenes,
but are critical terms as a part of a cybersecurity program.
Now I get it. All this policy and governance stuff is boring,
especially when compared to fun topics like ethical hacking.
However, establishing, maintaining, and following
organizational policies is the bedrock of a good security program.
They provide the written directions that everyone in the organization should follow.
Without them, it's chaos.
Policies are formal statements or rules that specify correct or expected behavior.
For an example, an acceptable use policy explains
the rules for using the company's information systems.
Whether you're a client or an employee,
you need to be able to consistently enforce
these policies improve compliance to an auditor.
Also, policies must be written and accessible by those who need to comply.
In the exercise, you'll look at some policies that are affecting you right now.
So why should you care about governance, compliance, and auditing?
Well, it affects your life and you may not even realize it.
When you first start working at a company,
they'll have you read all of their policies.
Why? Because they expect you to follow them
from day one throughout your whole term as an employee.
Ignorance is no excuse.
Even as a client or consumer,
we're shown policies or end-user license agreements and are
expected to follow them even if we sometimes just want to click through and ignore them.
Also, as a cybersecurity professional,
you very well may have the role of writing,
updating, or enforcing those corporate policies.
Lastly, often auditors are used to validate that
organizations are following the rules and have the right amount of security in place.
You very well may need to work with them or you may even be one as part of your career.
Having solid governance in place saves time, money,
and resources, and creates a better culture of security.